ABBY: Previously on Dance Moms.
Those two just better back off
or Melissa is gonna lose it.
MELISSA: Abby, I'm sorry to interrupt you,
but these people are starting this again,
so my kids and I are leaving
and we're not going this weekend.
I can't believe that
she sent a letter to all of us
from an attorney.
Friends don't sue friends.
ABBY: It's none of their business,
and they are causing this trouble.
-Stop screaming at our kids.
-Okay.
(makes sound)
Coming up on Dance Moms.
Uh-oh. (gasps)
She just twisted her ankle.
(tense music playing)
HOLLY: As soon as she went down,
I was like... (gasps)
She can't do it.
We have to pull her.
Everybody else has to learn to adjust.
Well, I was looking at the X-rays.
It looks like a stress fracture.
CHRISTI: She'll have the most attention,
the best choreography,
and the most private lessons.
Stop talking about my daughter.
She's nine years old.
We're not talking about your daughter.
We're talking about
what you enable to happen.
("Living on the Dance Floor"
by Nikko Lowe playing)
SINGER: ♪Get up♪
♪Get on the floor♪
♪My world is with my girls♪
♪Living on the dance floor♪
(upbeat music playing)
ABBY: Come on girls, let's go.
Let's go. Join the party.
So did everybody have
a good time in Chicago?
Yes.
All right, now let's talk
about our group dance.
I thought it was beautiful.
SINGER:
♪I try to run ♪
♪I can't fight it♪
ABBY: I thought the costumes
looked gorgeous on everybody.
I gave everybody a challenge with acting.
You all did it.
All right, now Maddie,
you did a solo this week.
I know there were some boys
you were worried about,
but you beat them.
You can't psych yourself out backstage.
-Understood?
-Yes.
ABBY: Nia, I watched the trio
and I watched you closely.
I feel that you were a beat behind.
SINGER:
♪Whatever I want, whatever I want♪
♪When I want it♪
♪Whatever I want♪
It's the difficult technical things
that you have trouble with.
That's what you need to keep working on.
-Understood?
-Yes.
ABBY: We have a lot to do.
I'm gonna get right to the pyramid.
At the bottom of the pyramid.
Chloe, you were one of the most
advanced dancers
sitting in this group
but I want more from you.
You need a challenge.
You need to work up to the next level.
Chloe is one of my top dancers,
and I have something big coming up.
So I put her at the bottom of the pyramid
because I need to light
a fire under her butt.
Remember, there is no I in team,
but there is an M and an E,
and it's all about me.
Understood?
All right, moving on.
Nia.
Nia, that trio, you wanted it.
You got in it.
Like I said,
you have the style and the sass,
but the rest of it is a mess.
Paige, you did a great job.
Did your part.
I want more.
KELLY: Abby says she wants
more from Paige.
Well, you know what?
Paige wants more from Abby.
She wants to be more
than just a background dancer.
Next I have Mackenzie.
Mackenzie, you continue
to improve each week.
Every week I come into the studio,
you learn a new trick,
but I don't want it to all
be about your gymnastics. Got it?
And Brooke.
I thought that your part
in the group dance was excellent.
Just watch the chin in the chin stand.
No more ickies.
On top of the pyramid is Maddie.
You won the overall high score.
You beat Justice.
You beat all the boys.
Congratulations.
(applause)
Moving on,
I need to talk
a little bit about this week.
There's going to be a scout
from the Joffrey Ballet
in Michigan at Energy Dance.
He is scouting kids to go
to an audition for Joffrey.
(girls gasp)
-I have family there.
-Wonderful.
CHRISTI: The Joffrey is one
of the premiere ballet programs
in the country.
Its reputation is unparalleled.
And it really could give one
of them an incredible opportunity.
So you need to be your best.
You need to represent
the Abby Lee Dance Company
to the best of your ability.
All right.
The group number this week
is entitled "Nip and Tuck."
-Hmm.
-We need that.
(chuckles)
I know that you talk
about having some work done.
Kelly...
-What?
-ABBY: We all know what you want.
Boobs?
-(laughter)
-(interposing voices)
ABBY: You all know that you have
beautiful, gorgeous children.
So this is a message about our body image.
It's a message about people
that do have work done.
It's kind of eerie.
It's kind of dark.
CHRISTI: I think that we're supposed
to be trying to teach our girls
to be comfortable in their own skin,
not change that skin,
so I'm not sure what kind
of mixed messages we're sending.
We have to trios.
I'm splitting the group in half.
And the trios will be
Mackenzie, Paige, and Nia.
You will be doing a high energy
jazz routine,
incorporating gymnastic tumbling.
KELLY: I think Paige feels
like she's been downgraded.
Paige is used to dancing
with Maddie and Chloe.
You know,
normally you try to dance ahead,
and now Abby's bringing her back a step.
Then I have Brooke,
Maddie, and Chloe.
You will be doing
a contemporary lyrical routine.
Chloe, it's about the trio.
CHRISTI:
Nia, Paige, and Mackenzie finally have
their special moment, their trio,
and I think that they should have a chance
to win on their own.
Because when you're putting them
against Brooke, Maddie, and Chloe,
I mean, it doesn't really seem
like that's gonna be
too much of a fair fight.
ABBY: Brooke, you've never done
a trio with these girls,
so this is gonna be all new for you.
Chloe and Maddie
will be doing a solo again.
MELISSA: I'm happy that Maddie
has a lot of dancers this week,
being that the Joffrey is gonna be here,
so she has three chances
to be seen on stage.
However, it's a lot of pressure
for a nine-year-old.
ABBY: I'm excited about going.
I had a great time in Chicago.
I hope this next trip is just as fun
without Cathy from Candy Apple.
But I'll tell you what,
she's easy to beat.
The people at this competition
aren't gonna be so easy to beat.
All right, moms, you can leave.
Thank you very much.
Girls, spread apart.
We're gonna do an entrance.
One, two, three, four.
CHRISTI: I don't understand why she was
at the bottom of the pyramid.
I don't.
I think that she deserved
to be in the second row.
MELISSA: I don't know how Kenzie
got in the middle, to be honest with you.
CHRISTI: Gee, Melissa,
I'm not really sure why
Mackenzie's in the middle
of the pyramid.
Maybe because you're
best friends with Abby?
Go. Ba bum.
HOLLY: I just hope that Abby gives
enough time and attention
-to the choreography equally for both.
-Yeah, I agree.
-I do agree.
-HOLLY: And I have a feeling that...
-MELISSA: That won't happen?
-...the one trio will be
just slapped together and the fun,
contemporary one probably will have--
like, will be a very...
-Thoughtful, right.
-...thoughtful piece.
And I worry about that.
And then when she said that
there's two solos as well,
like, there's not enough time
to choreograph five dances in the way
that all five of them should
or deserve to be choreographed.
HOLLY: Something is gonna lose.
CHRISTI: Abby has a lot
on her plate this week.
She is doing a lot of numbers
at this competition,
and frankly, I don't know
if we have enough time
to give each of those numbers
the attention they deserve.
And ultimately,
it's gonna be the girls
who are blamed if they fail.
SINGER: ♪Reinvent yourself♪
ABBY: Down. Down.
Here. Down.
Down. Here.
Ledge. Ledge. Peek.
I keep hearing the moms
talk about "work"
they'd like to have done,
you know, to retain their youth.
Well, I thought of an idea,
"Nip and Tuck."
You know, a little here,
a little there.
So I'm going to do a routine
based on that theme,
and I cannot wait.
I like to do things that
keep the audience guessing
so that the judges have, like,
a renewed interest in the piece.
Crawl.
Pretty feet.
Turn them out.
Why is Chloe crawling
around like she has no arms?
It's "Nip and Tuck."
She lost her arms maybe?
-They cut them off?
-(laughter)
MELISSA: I never worried
that my kids can't handle a dance
or a concept that Abby has to show them.
My girls totally know what liposuction is
because I always talk about it.
I would love to get it.
Well, I'm getting a boob job.
Well, good.
I thought you wanted to do it before.
-(interposing voices)
-Why are you getting a boob job?
For my 40th birthday,
I thought my husband would get it for me
and I thought he would get me my ring.
Well, this year I've decided
I'm doing both of them for myself.
I want boobs because I think
I need them to balance out my ass.
I used to have nice D's.
And then I nursed my kids,
all three of my kids,
and now I don't have any.
So I told my husband--
-Mine was the opposite.
-I lost them because I had kids,
so he should reimbursed me.
(laughter)
-HOLLY: Return on his investment.
-Yeah.
I gave him three beautiful children.
He should give me two boobs.
And then if I like them,
then I'll get my ass sucked out.
(laughs)
I know,
everybody wants me to do my nose
but I wear this thing
like a badge of honor.
MELISSA: I don't really think our kids
know what body image really is.
I think Brooke does because Abby
tells her all the time she has a big butt,
and she constantly throws in her face,
like, that Paige has a nice body.
You know what I mean?
Maybe I'm being naive,
but I don't think anybody struggles
with body image.
-I think they all kind of, like, own it.
-HOLLY: No.
CHRISTI: I was built like that,
you know, like...
KELLY: So was I.
...super skinny.
Yeah, I was, too.
KELLY:
Before we needed a nip and a tuck.
(upbeat music playing)
ABBY: More.
Give me more.
Give me something going to the back.
Come on.
How far is Highland, Michigan?
-I wann see how--
-26 hours.
-CHRISTI: Yeah. On a bus it's 28.
-KELLY: Oh, God, 28.
KELLY: Is this the trio?
CHRISTI: I really wish the two trios
weren't competing against each other.
HOLLY:
I really wish they weren't, either.
This week we have two separate trios,
aside from the group dance,
and it's kind of weird
because you have two families
that are divided.
I don't know why she couldn't
have done this trio this week
-and that trio the next week.
-KELLY: I agree.
CHRISTI: They're gonna be
disappointed because one
-of them is gonna lose.
-KELLY: Right.
MELISSA: Well, I think
we just have to tell her.
HOLLY: Look at Nia.
ABBY: Push.
Push.
Uh-oh. (gasps)
She just twisted her ankle.
Oh, my God.
-Oh, my God, Holly.
-I gotta go down there.
(tense music playing)
ABBY: Everything seems to be going, well
and then the girls get
to their second jump.
(gasps)
She just twisted her ankle.
CHRISTI: Oh, my God.
Nia, boom, lands on her foot
and she's down for the count.
Oh, my God, Holly.
GIANNA:
Can you--can you stand on it?
(groans) Yeah.
HOLLY: Nia went down really hard.
I know my child has
a high tolerance for pain,
but she's crying.
I know things must be really bad.
When I landed on it,
my foot kind of twisted.
You're doing a straddle.
That's the hardest thing to land.
How about trying to stand up?
Here, use your other leg.
Point.
-Does that hurt?
-It hurts whenever I point.
It hurts whenever you point?
Can you circle it?
-Yeah, but it hurts.
-ABBY: Yeah, but it hurts?
HOLLY: Nia has been working really hard
this week with the group number,
as well as the trio,
and an injury like this
could be a major setback for her.
If it gets worse and she can't do it,
we have to pull her.
Everybody else has to learn to adjust.
(tense music playing)
HOLLY: Nervous?
-Your foot's shaking.
-NIA: No.
HOLLY:
I took Nia to the doctor's office today
because I knew that foot
had been bothering Nia
and I thought better
to get it checked out.
Better safe than sorry.
DOCTOR:
What's going on with this foot here?
-NIA: Well, it hurts.
-DOCTOR: It hurts?
Nia usually has a high tolerance for pain,
so usually don't think much of it.
She can just dance
through a lot of it, but.
DOCTOR: Okay.
And never any problems
with the foot before this?
Never.
She's always been fine.
DOCTOR: Looking at the X-rays,
that looks like a stress fracture.
You can keep dancing,
but I want you to tape your toes here
for about three weeks.
NIA: So I can still do all my tricks?
DOCTOR: Oh, no, not so much.
HOLLY: The doctor said it's okay for Nia
to dance if she tapes up her foot,
but she shouldn't do her tricks.
As a mom, this is a really tough
decision to make.
Nia really wants to dance
and she really needs to go
all out to impress
the Joffrey Ballet scout.
(contemporary music playing)
MADDIE: This week,
I'm doing a contemporary dance
called "Quiet Voices,"
and I really love the movement to it.
It's kind of awkward.
MADDIE: Miss Abby and I have been
working really hard on it
so I can put my best foot forward
for the Joffrey Ballet scout.
("Quiet Violence" by Sharon Kenny playing)
SINGER: ♪My song♪
♪The questions we ask...♪
ABBY: Maddie's routine
is a little bit darker than usual.
It's about somebody hearing
these voices in their head.
She really has to use
her emotional connection to the audience,
and I'm sure she will.
Seven. Breathe.
Eight. Slow down.
One, two, three.
I really hope and pray
that this passion that Maddie has
for her dancing continues
for the rest of her life.
Maddie has this,
and that's what you see first.
She loves what she's doing,
and her emotions tell the story,
and that's what you fall in love with
when she dances.
(music continues playing)
-ABBY: Bravo.
-(applause)
Good girl.
Whoo.
You're getting paid.
You get a raise.
This is really tears.
Da, da, cross.
Don't drop off your right heel.
That's not how you finish a turn.
Chloe has great lines.
She's a great dancer.
But she doesn't give me what I want.
She wants to be a choreographer.
She wants to make it up herself
instead of, you know what, kid?
There's lots of time for that.
Do what I'm telling you to do.
Up.
One, two, three.
Arc that way, Chloe.
Dance,
don't just be a stick figure.
Chloe is just not focused today.
She is stumbling over choreography
that she should be picking up
like it's second nature.
(tense music playing)
ABBY: Listen to me.
Go out, get a drink of water.
Clear your brain.
I decided to give Chloe a little break
so that she can gather her thoughts,
review her choreography,
and get her act together.
In the meantime,
I want Maddie to perform her new solo
for my senior company.
They need to realize
that a little nine-year-old
can learn a whole routine
and execute it flawlessly in one day.
KELLY: Christi,
she's running Maddie's solo again.
CHRISTI: I can't believe Abby
interrupted Chloe's solo rehearsal
just so Maddie could perform
in front of the senior company.
I mean, she's not even trying
to hide her favoritism anymore.
It's a slap in the face to everyone,
especially Chloe.
It's nice to put all
your eggs in one basket.
Yeah, okay.
ABBY: Watch the maturity
in the level of dancing.
Watch the ability
to comprehend...
the movement.
When I've given you
something that I envisioned,
and you make it better than
what I ever thought it could be,
That's great.
That's amazing.
That's what I want to see.
(contemporary music playing)
Abby is trying to turn
our kids against your kid...
-You know what--
-...and you let her do it.
No, I don't.
(dramatic music playing)
ABBY: She's nine.
Some of you are almost twice her age.
(applause)
ABBY: Go. Go to tap.
(indistinct chatter)
CHRISTI: She sits there
and she watches the dance.
She knows what people's strengths
and weaknesses are,
and she uses that as an advantage
for your daughter.
(indistinct)
Yes.
Why don't you ever
stand up to Abby, Melissa?
You always say that you're her friend,
so you should have a different
kind of a connection with her.
So why don't you ever
stick up for the kids?
I'm so sick of Christi and Kelly
always getting on me
because my daughter has a gift.
I'm sick of hearing the whole--the same
thing over and over and over again.
I know, but that's the thing.
-And we're sick of it happening...
-BOTH: Over and over and over again.
I'll go tell Abby--
CHRISTI: Then she'll have her featured
in the group dance
and she'll make sure that
she wins all the solos,
because she'll have the most attention,
the best choreography,
and the most private lessons.
Stop about talking about my daughter.
She's nine years old.
We're not talking about your daughter.
-Yes.
-We're talking what you enable to happen.
I'm not talking about your daughter.
-I'm talking about you.
-Okay, so you're gonna stick up
-for my daughter when Abby's out there?
-I stick up for Maddie all the time.
I stick up for every one of those kids,
Melissa.
-No, you don't.
-Oh, I absolutely do.
-Melissa, I tell you all the time.
-You know what?
Your daughter doesn't need me
to stick up for her
because you have her so far
in your back pocket she doesn't need it.
I stick up for the kids who need it.
I'm just sick and tired of it.
I'm not gonna stick around in this room
and have Christi and Kelly
bitch at me for no reason.
CHRISTI: You see what she does
to my kid and her kid
and you don't stick up for them.
MELISSA: I am so sick of this. I'm--
-I'm gonna sit here.
-CHRISTI: Melissa's in there with Abby?
She's going in to tattle on us?
You're not allowed to talk
to her till after class.
We're having a disagreement with Melissa,
and this just goes to show
how close she is with her.
She goes in and talks to her.
I don't want to dance
here anymore, Maddie.
I'm sick of it.
-Ever?
-Yeah, I'm sick of it.
What--they're always
attacking you and me.
I mean, it's ridiculous.
It's always about Maddie,
and Maddie, Maddie, Maddie.
CHRISTI: Hey, Melissa,
we weren't done talking to you.
Would you mind coming back like an adult
instead of hiding by Abby?
-MELISSA: I'm not hiding.
-You are hiding.
MELISSA: Bite my (bleep).
I've had enough.
I don't even want to be in the same
building as these women.
I don't like it, either,
Melissa, but guess what?
This is what it is.
MELISSA: I'll make arrangements
for Maddie to get home.
CHRISTI: As soon as things get ugly,
you run and go home.
MELISSA:
Don't ask me to go back.
(upbeat music playing)
I don't know if I'm really that hungry.
-Oh, I'm starving.
-HOLLY: Oh, my.
-Dance moms are almost always hungry.
-KELLY: I'm starving.
I don't want to have
to have a nip and tuck.
(laughs)
CHRISTI: After the big blow-up
with Melissa last night,
Kelly, Holly, and I decided to go
to Mohan's.
It's nice to go out with your girlfriends
and blow off steam,
you know, especially with people
who you can commiserate with,
who understand exactly
where you're coming from.
I was just thinking of Abby.
What exactly?
Like, how she sits up at night
and dreams up all these themes.
HOLLY:
Well, she was dreaming big this week.
(interposing voices)
I think she bit off
more than she can chew.
The girls work really hard
on those dances,
and then someone to get shafted.
There's gonna be something.
There's gonna be compromise,
and it's not gonna be a quality dance,
because there is no way she has enough
creative juices in her brain--
Well, we already saw the trio.
I know.
Maybe she's saving
all her creativity for the solos.
I try really hard to stay neutral
and objective
and stay out of the way,
but I want Nia to do well
for the Joffrey Ballet scout,
and I just don't think Abby's giving her
enough time or attention.
Abby helped Maddie's solo
and Chloe has nothing.
Why doesn't she think
about all the other kids?
-They don't count.
-I mean, I keep thinking,
like, finally someone's gonna
catch a break.
-It's not right.
-Nope.
I feel very defeated.
I think Abby spread herself
too thin this week.
And I think that we all know
that she's gonna be focusing
most of her attention on Maddie
because she wants her
to impress the Joffrey scout.
And then what kills me is Melissa
plays the I'm so nice part,
and she's the sneakiest,
most underhanded person of them all.
She's the one who takes music
producers out for coffee.
-She takes the judges out for lunch.
-Yeah.
She sends gifts to every
competition in America.
Be prepared for this weekend
because I'm certain that
it's gonna be a collaborative effort
to do everything possible
to make sure that Maddie gets back on top.
ABBY: Girls, one day.
("Somebody Told Me"
by Cassandra Kubinski playing)
SINGER: ♪ Somebody told me I'd be fine♪
ABBY: Maddie,
Chloe, and Brooke's trio
is called "Somebody Told Me."
It's pretty.
It's nice.
I think any judge would love
to see this number on stage.
Watch your feet. Ugh.
Sickled feet, Maddie.
MADDIE: I really like doing solos,
but I'm also doing a trio
and a group dance,
and it's gonna be a lot.
Ugh, sloppy, girls.
(tense music playing)
ABBY: I have no idea
what's going on with Maddie.
She just seems a little off right now.
It's just a mess.
You're marking the side aerial.
You're sloppy out of every turn.
MADDIE: Normally, Miss Abby is tough,
but now that the Joffrey Ballet guy
is here,
she's gonna be even tougher.
(upbeat music playing)
MELISSA: Come on, girls.
ABBY: Hello, sir, how are you?
We're on our way to Highland, Michigan
for the Energy Dance competition.
We have a plateful
of routines to do today.
All the more chances
for the Joffrey Ballet scout
to see my kids perform.
Bus driver,
we're gonna stop at my house
and pick out my dog, okay?
Oh, I don't think we can
deviate from the route.
ABBY: Oh, yes, we can.
I'm the boss.
I'm the captain of this ship.
-ABBY: Oh.
-WOMAN: Oh.
Go, Jim.
HOLLY: There you go, Jim.
Abby Lee Miller's on the name.
KELLY:
That's why you're our favorite bus driver.
The bus driver absolutely refuses
to stop and pick up Abby's dog,
and we just love it, us moms,
because when somebody
puts Abby in her place,
it is just like, love it.
(laughs)
ABBY: Oh, come on.
Jim, you're killing me.
Kelly, can you come here?
I bought you a present today.
-Oh, my God.
-MELISSA: I guessed your size.
You did not buy me a bra.
You idiot.
Thank you.
MELISSA: I guessed your size.
KELLY: Oh, you guessed right.
Look how little it is. (laughs)
MELISSA: Oh, my God,
it looks really little.
CHRISTI: Typical Melissa. You know,
one day she's swearing
that she's quitting for good
and she's never coming back.
The next day,
she's handing out gifts.
Whack-a-doodle-do.
(upbeat music playing)
Hey.
Here we are at the
Energy Dance Competition.
My girls are gonna have to step it up
if they want to impress
that Joffrey Ballet scout.
All right, girls,
now listen to me.
First we have Maddie's solo
and the two trios,
then Chloe's solo.
Chloe, Maddie, tights, shoes.
Yes? Understood?
MADDIE: I'm very excited
about my solo this week
because I love the song,
but I'm very tired.
CHRISTI: Just remember,
smooth transitions.
Tell the story, it's happy, pretty.
Maddie and Chloe are both
doing three dances this week.
They're both doing a solo,
a trio, and a group number.
And frankly, I don't know
if Abby has spent enough time
with Chloe so that she feels prepared,
and I'm really worried.
(lyrical music playing)
ABBY: Point those out.
Stretch the back of the knee.
That's a développé.
Lengthen the back of that knee.
I don't know what's going on
with Maddie today.
She is usually cool as a cucumber,
but she is prancing
around this dressing room
in a frenetic state.
She needs to calm down
and go out there and do what Maddie does,
win.
Make sure her tights are not sticking out.
-MADDIE: (crying)
-What's wrong? What's wrong?
What's wrong, honey?
-Something just stabbed me.
-MELISSA: Okay.
Okay, let go.
It's okay. Don't cry, Maddie.
Don't.
Don't. Don't cry.
-Let's go. Come here.
-It hurts so bad.
Okay, come on. Come.
ABBY:
You keep jabbing her over and over.
-No, I don't.
-Stop.
MELISSA: I'm not jabbing her.
I have my finger.
ABBY: Put your hand in here.
-MELISSA: I have my hand on the pin.
-ABBY: Put your hand there.
-You put your hand there.
-MELISSA: Walk.
I have my hand on the pin.
I accidentally stuck Maddie with a pin.
She's fine.
I just think the stakes
are really high this week
and she's really getting stressed out.
(dramatic music playing)
MADDIE: I've been working really
hard on my solo this week,
so I'm not gonna let Miss Abby down.
ANNOUNCER:
Please welcome to the stage
Maddie with the solo
performance "Quiet Voices."
(cheers and applause)
("Quiet Violence" by Sharon Kenny)
SINGER: ♪If you hit me with words♪
♪You don't say, it still hurts♪
♪So I'll hit you back
by biting my tongue♪
♪And we'll have a war
without any volume♪
♪I will remember♪
♪I'll just remember the sounds
we used to make♪
♪But memories have no noise♪
I like watching my big sister dance.
I might not be as good as her,
but I'm working on it.
SINGER:
♪Memories have no voice♪
MELISSA: Maddie's solo this week
was one of my favorites
that she's ever done.
She had a lot of feelings,
and I was very impressed.
I was very happy with her dancing.
SINGER: ♪ Voice ♪
♪Voice♪
ABBY: She had the entire audience
in the palm of her hand.
You could hear a pin drop in that place.
And that's what Maddie does.
It's here and it's here,
because she loves to dance
and her home is on the stage.
(cheers and applause)
-Amazing.
-I loved it.
MADDIE: That was amazing.
What did you think?
It was good.
ABBY: Yes, it was good.
This is a kid that could go on
to great things.
I need to make sure
that she's in it for the long haul.
The turns were good.
Did you hear people clapping?
Yeah, that was me.
(laughs)
CHRISTI: I thought
Maddie's solo was fabulous,
and I really think that it should be
because she's the one
whom Abbey spends the most time with.
(tense music playing)
CHLOE: I'm really excited to do a trio
with Maddie and Brooke
in front of the Joffrey Ballet scout
because Brooke and Maddie
are really good dancers,
so I think we'll do really good.
ANNOUNCER: Please welcome to the stage
Brooke, Chloe, and Maddie
with the trio performance
"Somebody Told Me."
(cheering)
("Somebody Told Me"
by Cassandra Kubinski playing)
SINGER: ♪ Somebody told me I'd be fine ♪
♪ Shook her head, smiled
and wiped off mine ♪
♪ And so I saw the sight of strength ♪
♪ And heard the sounds of healing ♪
♪ I learned to read it like a sign ♪
♪ She was beside me ♪
♪ I was fine ♪
MELISSA: The music's beautiful.
The choreography is absolutely beautiful.
It's more mature, and I think the girls
worked together the entire time.
SINGER: ♪ And I'll go on
for I have always more to give ♪
♪ And this I know
♪ 'Cause somebody told me ♪
♪ So... ♪
(cheers and applause)
ANNOUNCER: Very cute, ladies.
Great job.
ABBY: Overall,
I thought the trio was beautiful,
elegant, feminine.
They nailed it.
I've been icing my foot,
but I hope it doesn't hurt
while I'm dancing.
ANNOUNCER: Please welcome to the stage
Mackenzie, Nia, and Paige
with a trio performance, "Girl Fun."
HOLLY: I'm waiting in the crowd
for the trio to come on
and I'm incredibly worried.
I know somewhere in this crowd
is a Joffrey ballet scout,
and I also know that Nia is not 100%.
SINGER: ♪ Uh-uh-uh, Uh-uh-uh ♪
♪ Come on, girls
we're going to have a good time ♪
♪ Uh-uh-uh ♪
♪ Come on, girls
we're going to have a good time ♪
♪ Gotta get my friends on the phone ♪
♪ Tell the girls it's time to party ♪
♪ Gonna find that funky song ♪
♪ Spin around and shake our bodies.
♪ Everybody wants a good time ♪
♪ Everybody wants to play ♪
♪ Everybody knows that girls ♪
♪ Are the only ones that say uh-uh-uh ♪
♪ Come on, girls... ♪
Overall, I really think
the trio was great this week.
It was very age-appropriate, for a change.
It was cute,
and the girls did some really hard tricks
that a lot of girls their age can't do.
SINGER: ♪ Uh-uh-uh ♪
I was sort of worried about my foot,
but when I hit the stage,
I didn't worry about my foot at all.
SINGER: ♪ Come on, girls
we're going to have a good time ♪
(cheers and applause)
ABBY: I think the mothers
thought that these two trios,
being in the same age division,
would be a conflict of interest,
but it happens all the time.
So I wanted to let them do their thing,
let them have their moment.
I want them to shine.
HOLLY: I bet the audience liked it.
(cheering)
You did perfect.
ABBBY: Hey, girls.
Good job.
I thought it was entertaining.
It was exciting. It was fun.
There's not a lot
of gymnastics on the stage today
so I think they really entertained
the audience.
How were my jumps?
What? What jump?
Your grand jete?
You were good. You have to watch
your back foot coming in.
Do you have anything else to say for Nia?
No, it was good. I thought it was good.
You guys want all this big description
for a two-minute, 10-second dance.
Well, you know, they don't have
a whole lot of time on stage,
so when they go,
it's nice to get some feedback.
ABBY: Well, you'll have to get
all those judges
of all these competitions
that they go to and listen to them.
It's incredibly frustrating
to sit and watch
and not get any feedback,
constructive criticism.
My child gave her all.
She went out there and performed,
and she didn't get any
type of feedback from Abby.
Nia came back from an injury
and Abby just did not care.
(tense music playing)
ABBY: Listen to the music.
Chloe, you're rushing.
Chloe's in the dressing room
going over her routine,
and I'm watching her
out of the corner of my eye.
She keeps forgetting
one part of the number.
So I said, Chloe, stop.
Let me fix that part
and let's do it over and over
so you get it in your body.
CHRISTI: I saw Chloe starting
to really doubt herself in Miami,
and now I see it even more.
I want her to see that innocent person,
and so I would rather be the bitch
and protect her and fight for her
and let her maintain that innocence.
-Remember, it's not about winning, okay?
-Uh-hmm.
It is about you going out there
and doing it to the best
-that you can do it, okay?
-Okay.
All right.
I love you, 'Chlo-bird'.
CHLOE: I love you.
ABBY: Chloe, listen to me.
When judges go to break,
do not step out on that stage
till every judge is seated
and has attention on that stage,
because they could still be
eating or getting their coffee
or figure out where the papers are.
-Do you understand me?
-Yes.
Love you.
(tense music playing)
ANNOUNCER: Please welcome
to the stage Chloe
from the Abby Lee Dance Company
with the solo performance
"Watercolors Fade."
(cheering)
("Watercolors Fade" by April Higuera)
SINGER:
♪ You painted what you wanted to see ♪
♪ A canvas covered with your dreams ♪
♪ The sky was so blue
and the sea was green ♪
♪ And I was dancing on your shore ♪
♪ Through your scenery ♪
♪ Yeah, I was everything ♪
♪ You wanted me to be ♪
♪ When watercolors fade ♪
♪ Dreams melt into tears ♪
♪ And tears turn into rain ♪
♪ Will it wash it all away? ♪
♪ Will anything remain ♪
♪ When watercolors fade? ♪
ABBY: I'm sitting in my seat
watching Chloe on stage.
She's performing.
She looks beautiful. Everything's great.
And then here I go, I'm watching her,
and here's the part that
she kept forgetting in the dressing room.
Boom. Forgets it on the part.
I mean, come on, kid.
What are you doing?
CHRISTI: Chloe looked horrified
when she forgot part of her dance,
and I know how important
this Joffrey opportunity is to her.
And I just want to say to her,
Chloe, you are so much better
than you think.
(tense music playing)
SINGER: ♪ Wash it all away
with watercolors ♪
Of all the times for Chloe
to forget part of her dance,
of course it's when
the Joffrey scout is here.
I can only hope that he didn't notice.
(applause)
ABBY: This is one of the reasons
I hate to watch my kids dance.
I mean, I'd rather stand
out in the hallway and pace.
I mean, come on, Chloe.
You worked for this.
You've earned it.
You're getting to do a solo.
And you just blow it?
Everybody blanks, but you stay on stage.
You keep dancing.
You figure it out
and get back on the music.
CHRISTI: When Abby's talking to Chloe
after she forgot part of her solo,
all I'm thinking to myself is, you know,
maybe if you gave her
the same amount of attention
as you do to everyone else,
she wouldn't forget.
Nia, did you learn something from that?
(tense music playing)
SINGER: (indistinct)
There are a lot of circumstances
surrounding that.
It wasn't just all about Nia.
That was a whole other can of worms.
Abby's just digging.
There's no other reason why Abby needs
to comment on Nia forgetting
her dance several weeks ago.
ABBY: Nia, just so you know,
that it's a lot better to do
what Chloe did
than to just stand there and freeze
and run off and cause all the hoopla.
To the group. Group. Group.
Girls, I'm running the group.
Let's go right now.
Paige, are you in a diagonal line?
MELISSA: I feel that the girls really
have to act in this group dance this week.
It's not just beautiful hands
and beautiful feet.
It's more precise.
It shows their technique a lot,
and it just shows that they have
different sides
of themselves as a dancer.
ABBY: Count, ladies.
Count. Feet.
Watch your supporting foot.
Don't let it sickle when you turn around.
I see air between
your insteps on the floor, Paige.
HOLLY: As I'm watching the girls
run through the dance
"Nip and Tuck" in the dressing room,
it is obvious
they just did not have enough time
to really learn that dance.
(indistinct chatter)
HOLLY: You think they know it well enough?
ABBY: I think legs straight,
feet pointed are a given.
When they do a side aerial,
it should be perfect
if you remember the choreography
or if you don't.
These girls need to understand,
when they graduate and leave my studio,
the pressure is going to be
that much more intense.
They need to turn it on right now
because the man from the Joffrey Ballet
is looking for real dancers.
-We have one number.
-HOLLY: Oh my gosh.
ABBY: Have fun. Go.
(upbeat music playing)
ANNOUNCER: Please welcome the girls
from the Abby Lee Dance Company
with the group performance "Nip and Tuck."
(cheering)
MELISSA: The girls come out,
and normally they come out real pretty,
but they're coming
out like doo, doo, doo, doo.
I loved it.
It sucks me in.
("Reinvent Yourself" by Robbie Nevil)
SINGER: ♪ Reinvent yourself ♪
♪ To the one that you wanna be ♪
♪ Reinvent yourself ♪
♪ Choose style that you wanna see ♪
♪ You can reinvent yourself ♪
♪ Reinvent yourself
a different you every single day ♪
♪ You can reinvent yourself ♪
♪ Re-in, re-in, re-in ♪
HOLLY: I'm watching the girls
perform "Nip and Tuck" on stage
and they look absolutely amazing,
and I'm hoping that
the Joffrey Ballet scout
also is equally impressed.
(eerie music playing)
-(cheers and applause)
-ANNOUNCER: Beautiful girls.
Great job.
ABBY: I thought the girls did a great job,
but I'm more concerned
with what the Joffrey Ballet scout
thought of my dancers.
(cheering)
ANNOUNCER: We're going to get right to it.
Junior Division.
In first place in the Junior Division,
can I get a drum roll, please?
(drumroll music playing)
ANNOUNCER: Entry number 39B,
"Quiet Voices," Maddie.
(cheering)
CHRISTI: Chloe didn't place.
She forget part of her dance,
but she kept dancing.
So I really hope
that she learns from this experience
and becomes better for it.
ANNOUNCER: Awesome job.
MADDIE: I am so happy
that I won first place.
It feels really good.
ANNOUNCER: We have a top five
in our Power Junior Duo/Trio.
Third place going to entry
number 99, "Fly on the Wall,"
Cathy's School of Dance.
(cheering)
Second place goes to entry number 127,
"Crazy Little Thing Called Love."
(cheering)
And our top scoring Power Junior Duo/Trio,
entry number 130A,
"Somebody Told Me,"
Abby Lee Dance Company.
(cheering)
ABBY: The overall went to the group
who did the lyrical contemporary routine.
It showed more technique.
Don't forget, they didn't have
a seven-year-old in their number.
KELLY: Once again I'm torn.
I am so happy for Brooke.
They got first place.
But then, you know,
I have to look at Paige
and be like, sorry.
ANNOUNCER: Moving on
to our Power Junior small groups,
we have two high scores, two top scores.
In second place,
entry number 116, "TV Land," studio 3.
(cheering)
First place is entry
number 131A, "Wipe Them Out,"
(cheering)
ABBY: If these girls would wise up
and realize
that working together as a team
is what it's going to take
to win the overall,
we'll win the overall.
You are never going to win
the overall group
doing a group team that's not together.
CHRISTI: We're sitting in the green room
and all we keep thinking is, you know,
what's going to happen
with this Joffrey audition.
Are we even going to be invited to go?
And what I'm thinking is,
what if we had more time?
(piano music playing)
-Who's this gentleman?
-Hi.
Brian McSween
from the Joffrey Ballet School.
The reason I wanted
to come in and talk to you
is because next Friday
we are having an open audition
in New York City for a full scholarship
to the Joffrey Ballet School,
and we would like for you
to join us for that audition.
20,000 dancers every year audition
for Joffrey Summer Program.
This is big time. It's intense.
If one of my girls receives a scholarship,
that's going to be amazing.
(cheering)
ABBY: The bottom line is my girls
have undeniable talent.
We may not have won all the trophies
we wanted to here at Energy Dance,
but we got something better.
We're going to the Joffrey.
-Yeah.
-Yay.
It's the absolutely most amazing thing
I think that has happened for our girls.
(cheering)